Add posts about 2.4 release (#659)
apache/airflow-site: landing-pages/site/content/en/blog/airflow-2.4.0/index.md

---

> title: "Apache Airflow 2.4.0: Data

Reviewer: Missing "-aware scheduling"?

Author: Errrr, just a small omission 😁

linkTitle: "Apache Airflow 2.4.0"
author: "Ash Berlin-Taylor"
github: "ashberlin"
linkedin: "ashberlin-taylor"
description: "We're proud to announce that Apache Airflow 2.4.0 has been released."
tags: [Release]
date: "2022-09-19"
---

Apache Airflow

> Apache Airflow 2.4.0 contains over 650 "user-facing" commits in this release (excluding commits to providers or chart) and over 870 in total since 2.3.0 and includes 50 new features, 99 improvements, 85 bug fixes, and several doc changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apache Airflow 2.4.0 contains over 650 "user-facing" commits (excluding commits to providers or chart) and over 870 total. That includes 50 new features, 99 improvements, 85 bug fixes, and several documentation changes.
```

Author: Note to self: I need to re-do the counts. I correct the number of commits from 2.3 (where I copied this from )but didn't redo the feature counts.

Reviewer 3: features: 44
improvements: 39
bugs: 52
misc: 53
docs: 19

> Apache Airflow 2.4.0 contains over 650 "user-facing" commits in this release (excluding commits to providers or chart) and over 870 in total, not cou since 2.3.0 and includes 50 new features, 99 improvements, 85 bug fixes, and several doc changes.

Reviewer: "not cou since 2.3.0"  not sure what this is

> Apache Airflow 2.4.0 contains over 650 "user-facing" commits in this release (excluding commits to providers or chart) and over 870 in total, not cou since 2.3.0 and includes 50 new features, 99 improvements, 85 bug fixes, and several doc changes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Apache Airflow 2.4.0 contains over 650 "user-facing" commits in this release (excluding commits to providers or chart) and over 870 in total since 2.3.0 and includes 50 new features, 99 improvements, 85 bug fixes, and several doc changes.
```

**Details**:

📦 PyPI: https://pypi.org/project/apache-airflow/2.4.0/ \
📚 Docs: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.4.0/ \
🛠️ Release Notes: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.4.0/release_notes.html \
🐳 Docker Image: docker pull apache/airflow:2.4.0 \
🚏 Constraints: https://github.com/apache/airflow/tree/constraints-2.4.0

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Data-aware scheduling (AIP-48)

This one is big. Airflow now has the ability to schedule DAGs based on other tasks updating datasets.

> What does this mean, exactly? This is a great new feature and lets DAG authors create smaller, more self-contained DAGs, that can chain together into a larger data-based workflow. If you are currently using `ExternalTaskSensor` or `TriggerDagRunOperator` you should take a look at datasets -- in most cases you can replace them with something that will speed up the scheduling!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What does this mean, exactly? It means that if one task updates a dataset in your ecosystem, for example, you can write a second task that runs _only when_ that dataset has been updated. While the `ExternalTaskSensor` or the `TriggerDagRunOperator` are able to perform that function today, datasets enable faster scheduling and more autonomous data pipelines. It enables DAG authors create smaller, self-contained DAGs that can chain together into a larger data-based workflow that is aware of the underlying data you're working with.
```

Reviewer 5: Second _dag_

> But enough talking, lets have a short example. First lets create the task that produces the dataset:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But enough talking, lets have a short example. First lets write a simple DAG with a task called `my_task` that creates a dataset called `my-dataset`:
```

```python
from airflow import Dataset

dataset = Dataset(uri='my-dataset')

with DAG(dag_id='producer', ...)
    @task(outlets=[dataset])
    def my_task():
        ...
```

> And then we can tell Airflow to schedule a DAG whenever this Dataset changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datasets are defined as a URI. Now, we can create a second DAG (`consumer`) that gets scheduled whenever this dataset changes:
```

Do we want to add a sentence or so on how this dataset object is actually "connected" to... your literal dataset? How does Airflow know what this is?

Author: > Do we want to add a sentence or so on how this dataset object is actually "connected" to... your literal dataset? How does Airflow know what this is?

It's in the docs linked at the end of this section, I don't think we need it in the blog post too?

```python

from airflow import Dataset

dataset = Dataset(uri='my-dataset')

with DAG(dag_id='dataset-consumer', schedule=[dataset]):
    ...
```

> With these two dags, the instant that the `my_task` finishes Airflow will create the DAG run for the `dataset-consumer` workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, the instant that `my_task` finishes and the dataset is created with the first DAG, Airflow will schedule and create a DAG run of the `dataset-consumer` DAG that then perhaps updates or writes to that dataset.
```

> With these two dags, the instant that the `my_task` finishes Airflow will create the DAG run for the `dataset-consumer` workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these two DAGs, the instant that the `my_task` finishes Airflow will create the DAG run for the `dataset-consumer` workflow.
```

> With these two dags, the instant that the `my_task` finishes Airflow will create the DAG run for the `dataset-consumer` workflow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With these two dags, the instant when `my_task` finishes, Airflow will create the DAG run for the `dataset-consumer` workflow.
```

Reviewer 6: Doesn't really need either "that the" or "when" — "the instant my_task finishes" works fine.

> (If you have the produce and consumer in different files you do not need to use the same Dataset object, two `Dataset()`s created with the same URI are equal.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have the produce and consumer in different files you do not need to use the same Dataset object, two `Dataset()`s created with the same URI are equal.
```

Don't think parentheses are necessary here.

> (If you have the produce and consumer in different files you do not need to use the same Dataset object, two `Dataset()`s created with the same URI are equal.)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
(If you have the producet and consumer DAGs in different files you do not need to use the same Dataset object, two `Dataset()`s created with the same URI are equal.)
```

> We know that what exists right now won't fit all use cases that people might wish for datasets, and in the coming minor releases (2.5, 2.6, etc.) we will expand and improve upon this foundation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is just the beginning for data-aware functionality in Airflow. We know that what we're releasing today won't accomplish all use cases, but we're committed to expanding and building upon this foundation in future releases.
```

> We know that what exists right now won't fit all use cases that people might wish for datasets, and in the coming minor releases (2.5, 2.6, etc.) we will expand and improve upon this foundation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We know that what exists right now won't fit all use cases that people might wish for datasets, and in the coming minor releases (2.5, 2.6, etc.) we will expand and improve upon this foundation.
```

> Datasets represent the abstract concept of a dataset, and (for now) do not have any direct read or write capability - in this release we are adding the foundational feature that we will build upon in future - and it's part of our goal to have smaller releases to get new features in your hands sooner!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is just the beginning for data-aware functionality in Airflow. For now, a dataset in Airflow represents the abstract concept of a dataset, versus a specific database or table that you can specify and Airflow can read from or write to.

We know that what we're releasing today won't accomplish all use cases, but we're committed to expanding and building upon this foundation in future releases.
```

I'd just combine these two paragraphs

> Datasets represent the abstract concept of a dataset, and (for now) do not have any direct read or write capability - in this release we are adding the foundational feature that we will build upon in future - and it's part of our goal to have smaller releases to get new features in your hands sooner!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datasets represent the abstract concept of a dataset, and (for now) do not have any direct read or write capability - in this release we are adding the foundational feature that we will build upon in the future - and it's part of our goal to have smaller releases to get new features in your hands sooner!
```

> For more info on Datasets please see the [docs on Data-aware scheduling][data-aware-scheduling], including how datasets are identified (URIs), how you can depend on multiple datasets, and how to think about what is a Dataset (hint: don't include "date partitions" in a dataset, it's higher level than that.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on datasets, see [documentation Data-aware scheduling][data-aware-scheduling]. That includes details on how datasets are identified (URIs), how you can depend on multiple datasets, and how to think about what a dataset is. (Hint: don't include "date partitions" in a dataset, it's higher level than that).
```

[data-aware-scheduling]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/datasets.html

## More improvments to Dynamic Task Mapping (AIP-42)

> You asked, we listened. Dynamic task mapping now includes support for `expand_kwargs` (to assign multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator), `zip` (to combine multiple things without cross-product) and `map` (to transform the parameters on just before the task is run).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You asked, we listened. Dynamic task mapping now includes support for:

- `expand_kwargs`: To assign multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator.
- `zip`: To combine multiple things without cross-product.
- `map`: To transform the parameters just before the task is run.
```

@ashb What does `without cross-product` mean?

> You asked, we listened. Dynamic task mapping now includes support for `expand_kwargs` (to assign multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator), `zip` (to combine multiple things without cross-product) and `map` (to transform the parameters on just before the task is run).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You asked, we listened. Dynamic task mapping now includes support for `expand_kwargs` (to assign multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator), `zip` (to combine multiple things without cross-product) and `map` (to transform the parameters just before the task is run).
```

> For more info on dynamic task mapping please the new sections of the doc on [Transforming Mapped Data][transforming-mapped-data], [Combining upstream data (aka "zipping")][task-mapping-zip], and [Assigning multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator][expand-kwargs].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on dynamic task mapping, see the new sections of the doc on [Transforming Mapped Data][transforming-mapped-data], [Combining upstream data (aka "zipping")][task-mapping-zip], and [Assigning multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator][expand-kwargs].
```

[task-mapping-zip]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#combining-upstream-data-aka-zipping
[transforming-mapped-data]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#transforming-mapped-data
[expand-kwargs]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#assigning-multiple-parameters-to-a-non-taskflow-operator

> ## Auto-register DAGS used in a context manager (no more `as dag:` needed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Auto-register DAGs used in a context manager (no more `as dag:` needed)
```

> This one is a small quality of life improvement, and I don't want to admit how many times I forgot the `as dag:`, or worse, had `as dag:` repeated (meaning only the last use showed up)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This one is a small quality of life improvement, and I don't want to admit how many times I forgot the `as dag:`, or worse, had `as dag:` repeated.
```

```python

with DAG(dag_id="example") as dag:
  ...

@dag
def dag_maker():
    ...

> dag2 = dag_maker()

Author: ```suggestion
dag2 = dag_maker()
```
```

> dag2 = dag_maker()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
dag2 = dag_maker()
```
```

can become

```python

with DAG(dag_id="example"):
    ...

@dag
def my_dag():
    ...

> my_dag()

Reviewer: Missing closing ```

Author: Yup, failed conversion from rst

> If you want to disable the behaviour for any reason then set `auto_register=False` on the dag:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to disable the behaviour for any reason, set the `auto_register=False` on the DAG:
```

```python
# This dag will not be picked up by Airflow as it's not assigned to a variable
with DAG(dag_id="example", auto_register=False):
    ...
```

## Removal of experimental Smart Sensors feature

> Smart Sensors were added in 2.0 and deprecated in favor of Deferrable operators in 2.2, and have now been removed. If you were using smart sensors you will have to switch to using deferrable operators before you can upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Smart Sensors were added in Airflow 2.0 and are now deprecated in favor of Deferrable operators, which were released in Airflow 2.2. If you were using smart sensors, you will have to switch to using deferrable operators before you can upgrade to Airflow 2.4.
```

Link to deferrable operators docs here? Brief statement that they "perform the same function" or have the same benefits?

> We're sorry to remove this feature (and we didn't do it lightly) but to enable us to continue to grow and evolve Airflow we needed to remove this experimental code. We will only do this sort of change in a minor release for features marked as experimental, for anything that is fully supported it won't be removed or broken until the next major release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're sorry to remove this feature (we didn't do it lightly) but to enable us to continue to grow and evolve Airflow we needed to remove this experimental code. We will only do this sort of change in a minor release for features marked as experimental. Any feature that is fully supported will only ever be removed in a major release.
```

> We're sorry to remove this feature (and we didn't do it lightly) but to enable us to continue to grow and evolve Airflow we needed to remove this experimental code. We will only do this sort of change in a minor release for features marked as experimental, for anything that is fully supported it won't be removed or broken until the next major release.

Reviewer 6: "changed or removed" rather than "removed or broken"? Sounds like you'd just take a hammer to something.

## Other small features

With over 650 commits the full list of features, fixes and changes is too big to go in to here (check out the release notes for a full list), but some noteworthy or interesting small features include:

- Auto-refresh on the home page

> - Add `@task.short_circuit` TaskFlow decorator

Author: Need to check if PR links actually work in these posts too (I think they wont, so I'll have to make a full link)

> - Add `@task.short_circuit` TaskFlow decorator

Author: They don't work, so I think from the blog post I'll remove PR numbers.

- Add roles delete command to cli (#25854)
- Add support for `TaskGroup` in `ExternalTaskSensor` (#24902)
- Add `@task.kubernetes` taskflow decorator (#25663)

> - Consolidate to one `schedule` param (#25410)

Reviewer 4: I feel this deserves its own section/para as `schedule_interval` and `timetable` on DAG are deprecated

- Allow showing non-sensitive config values in Admin -> Configuration (rather than all or nothing) (#25346)
- Operator name separate from class (no more `_PythonDecoratedOperator` when using TaskFlow) (#22834)

## Contributors

> Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release, including Andrey Anshin, Ash Berlin-Taylor, Bartłomiej Hirsz, Brent Bovenzi, Chenglong Yan, D. Ferruzzi, Daniel Standish, Ephraim Anierobi, Jarek Potiuk, Jed Cunningham, Josh Fell, Mark Norman Francis, Niko, Tzu-ping Chung, Vincent, Wojciech Januszek, blag, chethanuk-plutoflume, eladkal, pierrejeambrun, and everyone else who commited, all 152 of you! You are what makes Airflow the successful project that is is!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release, including Andrey Anshin, Ash Berlin-Taylor, Bartłomiej Hirsz, Brent Bovenzi, Chenglong Yan, D. Ferruzzi, Daniel Standish, Drew Hubl, Elad Kalif, Ephraim Anierobi, Jarek Potiuk, Jed Cunningham, Josh Fell, Mark Norman Francis, Niko, Tzu-ping Chung, Vincent, Wojciech Januszek, chethanuk-plutoflume, pierrejeambrun, and everyone else who committed, all 152 of you! You are what makes Airflow the successful project that it is!
```

> Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release, including Andrey Anshin, Ash Berlin-Taylor, Bartłomiej Hirsz, Brent Bovenzi, Chenglong Yan, D. Ferruzzi, Daniel Standish, Ephraim Anierobi, Jarek Potiuk, Jed Cunningham, Josh Fell, Mark Norman Francis, Niko, Tzu-ping Chung, Vincent, Wojciech Januszek, blag, chethanuk-plutoflume, eladkal, pierrejeambrun, and everyone else who commited, all 152 of you! You are what makes Airflow the successful project that is is!

Reviewer 6: * it is

---
title: "Apache Airflow 2.4.0: Data
linkTitle: "Apache Airflow 2.4.0"
author: "Ash Berlin-Taylor"
github: "ashberlin"
linkedin: "ashberlin-taylor"
description: "We're proud to announce that Apache Airflow 2.4.0 has been released."
tags: [Release]
date: "2022-09-19"
---

> Apache Airflow

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Data-aware scheduling (AIP-48)

This one is big. Airflow now has the ability to schedule DAGs based on other tasks updating datasets.

What does this mean, exactly? This is a great new feature and lets DAG authors create smaller, more self-contained DAGs, that can chain together into a larger data-based workflow. If you are currently using `ExternalTaskSensor` or `TriggerDagRunOperator` you should take a look at datasets -- in most cases you can replace them with something that will speed up the scheduling!

But enough talking, lets have a short example. First lets write a simple DAG with a task called `my_task` that produces a dataset called `my-dataset`:

```python
from airflow import Dataset

dataset = Dataset(uri='my-dataset')

with DAG(dag_id='producer', ...)
    @task(outlets=[dataset])
    def my_task():
        ...
```

And then we can tell Airflow to schedule a DAG whenever this Dataset changes:

```python

from airflow import Dataset

dataset = Dataset(uri='my-dataset')

with DAG(dag_id='dataset-consumer', schedule=[dataset]):
    ...
```

With these two DAGs, the instant `my_task` finishes, Airflow will create the DAG run for the `dataset-consumer` workflow.

> If you have the producer and consumer DAGs in different files you do not need to use the same Dataset object, two `Dataset()`s created with the same URI are equal.

Reviewer 3: This feels a little abrupt and out of place right here? It's in the docs, might not even need it in this post.

> 
> If you have the producer and consumer DAGs in different files you do not need to use the same Dataset object, two `Dataset()`s created with the same URI are equal.

Author: ```suggestion
```

For more information on datasets, see the [documentation on Data-aware scheduling][data-aware-scheduling]. That includes details on how datasets are identified (URIs), how you can depend on multiple datasets, and how to think about what a dataset is (hint: don't include "date partitions" in a dataset, it's higher level than that).

[data-aware-scheduling]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/datasets.html

## More improvments to Dynamic Task Mapping (AIP-42)

You asked, we listened. Dynamic task mapping now includes support for:

- `expand_kwargs`: To assign multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator.
- `zip`: To combine multiple things without cross-product.
- `map`: To transform the parameters just before the task is run.

For more information on dynamic task mapping, see the new sections of the doc on [Transforming Mapped Data][transforming-mapped-data], [Combining upstream data (aka "zipping")][task-mapping-zip], and [Assigning multiple parameters to a non-TaskFlow operator][expand-kwargs].

> [task-mapping-zip]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#combining-upstream-data-aka-zipping

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[task-mapping-zip]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.4.0/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#combining-upstream-data-aka-zipping
```

I wonder, should we go to the specific version to ensure the deep links work in the future?

Author: Yeah I was wondering about that. Probably

> [transforming-mapped-data]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#transforming-mapped-data

Author: ```suggestion
[transforming-mapped-data]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.4.0/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#transforming-mapped-data
```

> [expand-kwargs]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#assigning-multiple-parameters-to-a-non-taskflow-operator

Author: ```suggestion
[expand-kwargs]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.4.0/concepts/dynamic-task-mapping.html#assigning-multiple-parameters-to-a-non-taskflow-operator
```

```python

with DAG(dag_id="example") as dag:
  ...

@dag
def dag_maker():
    ...

dag2 = dag_maker()
```

can become

```python

with DAG(dag_id="example"):
    ...

@dag
def my_dag():
    ...

my_dag()
```

If you want to disable the behaviour for any reason, set `auto_register=False` on the DAG:

```python
# This dag will not be picked up by Airflow as it's not assigned to a variable
with DAG(dag_id="example", auto_register=False):
    ...
```

## Removal of experimental Smart Sensors feature

Smart Sensors were added in Airflow 2.0 and are were deprecated starting from Airflow 2.2 in favor of Deferrable operators. If you are using smart sensors, you will have to switch to using deferrable operators before you can upgrade to Airflow 2.4.

We're sorry to remove this feature (we didn't do it lightly) but to enable us to continue to grow and evolve Airflow we needed to remove this experimental code. We will only do this sort of change in a minor release for features marked as experimental. Any feature that is fully supported will only ever be removed in a major release.

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion

## Operators, hooks and sensors from 1.10 tha were deprecated that were present in `contrib`, 'airflow.operators`, `airflow.hooks`, `airflow.sensors` package have been removed and they will no longer be valid when you do static type checking and auto-completion in your IDEs. This is not a breaking change, as we've implemented dynamic handling of package attributes and they operators will continue to work if you use them in your DAGs, but we hope you are encouraged to move away from using those deprecated operators even more.

Author: To me the blog post is used to highlight cool new things, not “old stuff that’ll still work anyways”.

(So on that note, I wonder if we should actually remove the bit about smart sensors from this post?)

Reviewer 6: Given the link text from the index is "what's new in Apache Airflow 2.4.0" (although the title is less excitable) I'm inclined to agree with Ash.

Reviewer 7: Agree. I think we should simply move both - Smart Sensors and Deprecated Operators change to release notes and not mention them in the blog post.

## Additional improvements

> With over 650 commits the full list of features, fixes and changes is too big to go in to here (check out the release notes for a full list), but some noteworthy or interesting small features include:

Reviewer 3: Let's link out to the release notes?

- Auto-refresh on the home page
- Add `@task.short_circuit` TaskFlow decorator
- Add roles delete command to cli (#25854)
- Add support for `TaskGroup` in `ExternalTaskSensor` (#24902)

> - Add `@task.kubernetes` taskflow decorator (#25663)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Add experimental `parsing_context` to enable optimization of Dynamic DAG handling in workers (#25161)
```

Reviewer 7: I only looked in the "milestone" so I assume they were in the release notes - but will check now

Reviewer 7: Nope. they are missing in the release notes. I will add them

Reviewer 7: (but I checked they are included in 2.4 :) )

Reviewer 3: This one is in the release notes:
https://github.com/apache/airflow/blame/v2-4-stable/RELEASE_NOTES.rst#L229

- Consolidate to one `schedule` param (#25410)
- Allow showing non-sensitive config values in Admin -> Configuration (rather than all or nothing) (#25346)

> - Operator name separate from class (no more `_PythonDecoratedOperator` when using TaskFlow) (#22834)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Operator name separate from class (no more `_PythonDecoratedOperator` when using TaskFlow) (#22834)
- Add `ExternalPythonOperator` that allows to use multiple pre-existing Virtual Environments and Python binaries (#25780)
```

Reviewer 7: The "externalPythonOperator" was in release notes already.

Reviewer 7: Actually no - both are there in 2.4.0 - just the "main" version of RELEASE_NOTES is not updated - maybe you looked in the wrong one (same as I did @ashb ?)

Reviewer 3: Yeah, main is "stale" now. Typically we don't have anything in main at this point. I guess since we do we might entertain getting main correct early.

Reviewer 3: PR to bring main up to date: https://github.com/apache/airflow/pull/26443

Author: Bit about `@external_python` added in 3320f098cb

---
title: "Apache Airflow 2.4.0: That Data Aware Release
linkTitle: "Apache Airflow 2.4.0"
author: "Ash Berlin-Taylor"
github: "ashberlin"
twitter: "ashberlin"
linkedin: "ashberlin-taylor"
description: "We're proud to announce that Apache Airflow 2.4.0 has been released with many exciting improvements."
tags: [Release]
date: "2022-09-19"
---

Apache Airflow 2.4.0 contains over 650 "user-facing" commits (excluding commits to providers or chart) and over 870 total. That includes 46 new features, 39 improvements, 52 bug fixes, and several documentation changes.

**Details**:

📦 PyPI: https://pypi.org/project/apache-airflow/2.4.0/ \
📚 Docs: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.4.0/ \
🛠️ Release Notes: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/2.4.0/release_notes.html \
🐳 Docker Image: docker pull apache/airflow:2.4.0 \
🚏 Constraints: https://github.com/apache/airflow/tree/constraints-2.4.0

## Data-aware scheduling (AIP-48)

This one is big. Airflow now has the ability to schedule DAGs based on other tasks updating datasets.

> What does this mean, exactly? This is a great new feature and lets DAG authors create smaller, more self-contained DAGs, that can chain together into a larger data-based workflow. If you are currently using `ExternalTaskSensor` or `TriggerDagRunOperator` you should take a look at datasets -- in most cases you can replace them with something that will speed up the scheduling!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What does this mean, exactly? This is a great new feature that lets DAG authors create smaller, more self-contained DAGs, which chain together into a larger data-based workflow. If you are currently using `ExternalTaskSensor` or `TriggerDagRunOperator` you should take a look at datasets -- in most cases you can replace them with something that will speed up the scheduling!
```

I think I like this better than @paolaperaza's suggested edit.

```python
# This dag will not be picked up by Airflow as it's not assigned to a variable
with DAG(dag_id="example", auto_register=False):
    ...
```

## Removal of experimental Smart Sensors feature

Smart Sensors were added in Airflow 2.0 and are were deprecated starting from Airflow 2.2 in favor of Deferrable operators. If you are using smart sensors, you will have to switch to using deferrable operators before you can upgrade to Airflow 2.4.

We're sorry to remove this feature (we didn't do it lightly) but to enable us to continue to grow and evolve Airflow we needed to remove this experimental code. We will only do this sort of change in a minor release for features marked as experimental. Any feature that is fully supported will only ever be removed in a major release.

## Additional improvements

With over 650 commits the [full list of features, fixes and changes][release-notes-2.4.0] is too big to go in to here (check out the release notes for a full list), but some noteworthy or interesting small features include:

- Auto-refresh on the home page
- Add `@task.short_circuit` TaskFlow decorator

> - Add roles delete command to cli (#25854)
> - Add support for `TaskGroup` in `ExternalTaskSensor` (#24902)
> - Add `@task.kubernetes` taskflow decorator (#25663)
> - Add experimental `parsing_context` to enable optimization of Dynamic DAG handling in workers (#25161)
> - Consolidate to one `schedule` param (#25410)
> - Allow showing non-sensitive config values in Admin -> Configuration (rather than all or nothing) (#25346)
> - Operator name separate from class (no more `_PythonDecoratedOperator` when using TaskFlow) (#22834)

Author: ```suggestion
- Add roles delete command to cli
- Add support for `TaskGroup` in `ExternalTaskSensor`
- Add `@task.kubernetes` taskflow decorator
- Add experimental `parsing_context` to enable optimization of Dynamic DAG handling in workers
- Consolidate to one `schedule` param
- Allow showing non-sensitive config values in Admin -> Configuration (rather than all or nothing)
- Operator name separate from class (no more `_PythonDecoratedOperator` when using TaskFlow)
```
